WHAT IS EXPRESS?

Express is the most popular Node web framework, and is the underlying library for a number of other popular Node web frameworks.
 It provides mechanisms to:
1)Write handlers for requests with different HTTP verbs at different URL paths (routes).
2)Integrate with "view" rendering engines in order to generate responses by inserting data into templates.
3)Set common web application settings like the port to use for connecting, and the location of templates that are used for rendering the response.
4)Add additional request processing "middleware" at any point within the request handling pipeline.


WHAT DOES EXPRESS CODE LOOK LIKE?

In a traditional data-driven website, a web application waits for HTTP requests from the web browser (or other client). 
When a request is received the application works out what action is needed based on the URL pattern and possibly associated
information contained in POST data or GET data. Depending on what is required it may then read or write information 
from a database or perform other tasks required to satisfy the request. The application will then return a response to the web browser, 
often dynamically creating an HTML page for the browser to display by inserting the retrieved data into placeholders in an HTML template.

Express provides methods to specify what function is called for a particular HTTP verb (GET, POST, SET, etc.) and URL pattern ("Route"), 
and methods to specify what template ("view") engine is used, where template files are located, and what template to use to render a response.
 You can use Express middleware to add support for cookies, sessions, and users, getting POST/GET parameters, etc.

HELLO WORLD
The first two lines require() (import) the express module and create an Express application. 
This object, which is traditionally named app, has methods for routing HTTP requests, configuring middleware,
rendering HTML views, registering a template engine, and modifying application settings that control how the application 
behaves (e.g. the environment mode, whether route definitions are case sensitive, etc.)

The middle part of the code (the three lines starting with app.get) shows a route definition. 
The app.get() method specifies a callback function that will be invoked whenever there is an HTTP GET request with a path ('/') 
relative to the site root. The callback function takes a request and a response object as arguments, and simply calls send() 
on the response to return the string "Hello World!"

The final block starts up the server on port '3000' and prints a log comment to the console. 
With the server running, you could go to localhost:3000 in your browser to see the example response returned

FORM HANDKING PROCESS

Form handling is not very complicated: 
the route sends our request to a controller function which performs any database actions required, 
including reading data from the models, then generates and returns an HTML page. 
What makes things more complicated is that the server also needs to be able to process the data provided by the user,
and redisplay the form with error information if there are any problems.

1)Display the default form the first time it is requested by the user.
The form may contain blank fields (e.g. if you're creating a new record), or it may be pre-populated with initial values 
(e.g. if you are changing a record, or have useful default initial values).
2)Receive data submitted by the user, usually in an HTTP POST request.
3)Validate and sanitize the data.
4)If any data is invalid, re-display the form—this time with any user populated values and error messages for the problem fields.
5)If all data is valid, perform required actions (e.g. save the data in the database, send a notification email, 
return the result of a search, upload a file, etc.)
6)Once all actions are complete, redirect the user to another page.


EXAMPLES 

Specifies a set of fields in the request body (a POST parameter) to validate along with an optional
error message that can be displayed if it fails the tests. 
The validation criteria are daisy-chained to the body() method. For example, 
the first check below tests that the "name" field is not empty and 
sets an error message "Empty name" if it is not. The second test checks that the age 
field is a valid date, and using optional() to specify that null and empty strings will not fail validation.

Specifies a body field to sanitize. The sanitization operations are then daisy-chained to this method.
For example, the escape() sanitization operation below removes HTML characters from the 
name variable that might be used in JavaScript cross-site scripting attacks.

Runs the validation, making errors available in the form of a validation result object. 
This is invoked in a separate callback, as shown below: